right now let midnight rain I know how
midnight ray
not the same mask used to be you're not
the same
hey as you used to be now you're twice
the size of me now that is not nice and
I apologize for that
and that is an old bluegrass standard
you probably remember it if you think
hard enough written by the Carter
brothers and with the Skaggs family trio
back in the early nineteen twenty five
the point is this that was a song and I
played a solo to it and where did that
solo come from well that solo followed
the melody and it was made up by some
licks and I'd like to teach you those
licks and a few more and what I call
you
alright y'all that was your bag of licks
the second edition of the guitar bag of
licks now it's time to learn them right
so I invite you Gold pick members to go
over and click on Guitar Tabs print off
that PDF file there so or at least have
it on the screen there beside the video
so that you can follow along with me and
join me on the second video of this
series where I'm going to break down all
of these licks show you how to play them
but more importantly how to put them
together and then what I'm going to do
at the very end I'm going to have a
rhythm tracks video for you there on the
website where it will I will slow it
down and play a rhythm for you really
slow you can have something to practice
too and I will sing and then I'll play
rhythm for you so you can take a solo
and back and forth and back and forth
and will sound like a real band and be
cool alright so come join me we'll see
you in just a sec
julik number one let me play it for you
really slow follow along your tab
measure one
it's a great lick it fits in a lot of
places and play a little faster
what I'd like for you to really pay
attention to are the hammer ons and the
pull offs and the slides this particular
Lake has all three of those ornaments in
our left hand so we just need to make
sure that we're doing those correctly
and keeping our timing correct if you'll
notice all of those hammer-ons pull-offs
and slides or what's called eighth note
ornaments meaning that they happen at
the same speed it's the rest of the
notes that we're playing okay so as for
instance this pulled off here measure
one okay make sure that you don't rush
that pull off that happens the same
speed as if you were to pick every note
one and four and two and three I don't
want you to be doing pulling it off
really fast there's times when we might
want to do that but for this particular
lick let's keep this nice and even it's
sixteen eighth notes in a row
on
that's not